First question is if you have a period
of unemployment, how do you handle that?
>> If you have a period of unemployment,
you could explain it away
with volunteering or you can,
it really depends on a reason but
our industry is pretty forgiving.
Particularly if it doesn't
have anything to do with the,
if you're education base as having
to do with what we're doing anyway.
They're usually forgiving of that.
I've had people who they
were in the military and
can stay at home moms and now they're back
out there doing software engineering.
So I would maybe if it was something
positive place what you're doing but
if it was something, not just omit it,
and if they ask you a question
about it then explain it.
But all I say our industry
is pretty forgiving,
forgiving with that type of stuff.
So you had to worry about that too much.
>> How do you handle a bad relationship
with an employer or say a client?
>> You focus on making sure that you
extract the good things
from that great example.
Because the organization I was working
at had a, was also a veteran services.
They had said no to helping to
how bits of code was formed,
which was to help a person,
family in need.
For you guys that don't know, organization
was actually birthed out of a veteran
losing his life and family but
not being able to bury him.
They didn't have the funds to do that.
So I used technology, built a website and
I was able to raise $10,000 in 27 hours.
So, even though they say no,
they didn't like the fact that I did it on
my own, or at least my executive director
didn't like the fact I did it on my own.
And I helped his family on life
without them getting any credit for
it, which was super weird.
I was you said no, I get credit for it.
So he was very upset about that and
we had a very bad relationship.
We still have a very bad relationship,
whenever we see each other,
we're scout and
hate on each other the whole time.
So what has helped me is
continuing the good working relationships
with my main manager at the time.
She was actually a person who I recently
had to call to give me a recommendation
as little as I think four months ago.
So that's how you do that
you continue building,
you keep the good relationships
that you have had with that.
And you keep those intact,
right versus focusing on that
negative person, especially if it's
something that was outside of your
control with a client or something.
Cuz there's good and
bad like things go wrong.
Project, I mean, no one understands
it better than technical people.
Every project goes, it goes over the time
limit and it cost twice as much.
We know everything's bad,
everything's falling red it,
everything's basically a really
bad Reddit stream, right?
So what you do is you focus on the good,
and
you keep pushing out the good as long as
the good outweighs the bad, no one cares.
>> Is there a limit of how much
experience you should list?
>> I would try to keep
everything on one page.
So if it's not,
especially if all the stuff is not
relevant to what you're doing.
Obviously in the same industry, I would
focus on just whatever's in the industry
and try to keep it as focused on
your soft skills as possible, right?
>> How do you feel about making
a non-traditional web resume instead of
a Word doc making a website or
in some cases,
people have seen a side scrolling
video game, that kind of thing.
>> If you're talking about your portfolio,
that's one thing, but
if you're talking about just a resume that
you're gonna end up handing off to people,
they're gonna end up printing off and
things of that nature.
I'm against it mainly because the rule the
name of the game is keep it simple, silly.
So you got to keep this resume to
the light, you have three users, right?
So you're making a video game user how
they're gonna be able to upload that
to their HR tech.
They're not gonna be able to do that.
If you have some crazy design PDF thing
how are they gonna be able to upload that.
I'm not gonna be able to do it.
So you have to do that and
ideally it was your resume, keep it to
the lowest common denominator, right.
HR person isn't gonna be taken a call, the
robot is just gonna be looking for words
like literally what they're gonna do, the
tech is gonna convert your resume either.
If this PDF or
Word is gonna convert it to a JPEG and
use machine learning to pull
the words right off the JPEG.
So don't waste time trying
to fancy things up.
The rules I focus on it
resumes are super simple.
Don't use a Serif font
because we're in tech,
San Serif font look traditional
download moderate, so
keep it like that and try to keep it
as clean and concise as possible.
So I'll try to keep my resumes up to
one no longer than one or two pages.
Even now I try to make it two pages I
don't know why I just throw stuff away
because it doesn't help keeping it long,
isn't gonna help how long resume
isn't helped me get a better job.
A strong resume is what
helps you get a better job.
So you got to think of
strength versus length, right?